Welcome back.
So far we've seen built in modules like random and we've seen how to import them into our python files.
Now we're going to see how we can create our own custom modules which is less impressive than it sounds.
It's basically just a file with Python code in it that we write that we can require or import in another
file.
So yes we can import her own code.
The syntax is no different than before we just import.
And then the name of the python file.
So whatever the file is named helper P Why my stuffed up why you're going to reference it by my stuff
or helper or whatever the name is.
So here's an example I have.
These are representing two separate files.
File one.
Why not a very good name has a couple of functions.
The first one is called F-in and the second is called other F-ed doesn't matter what they do.
They don't really do anything except return a string.
Then we have filed two.
And if we wanted to import file one we just do it like this.
Import file one needs to be the same name as the python file.
And then under File 1 we have access to FM function or other effen other function.
And that's kind of all there is to it.
I'm just going to show an example.
I'm going to start making three different files to the first one I make will just be called the Nanna's
duppy y.
So I have a function called Piel and just returns.
Here's a delicious banana.
And another function called dip in chocolate which returned Here's a delicious banana dipped in chocolate.
And our final function cell which just returns.
There's always money in the banana stand.
It's Arrested Development thing.
Then we have another file called apples.
Why not open that one up and there's a single function called the offer that returns the string Hey
do you like apples.
And then another function called bake that just returns.
Mmm pie.
So we have these two files.
They have nothing to do with one another.
Now let's make a third file called fruits.
P Y.
And will import both of those files as modules.
So all we need to do is start off up top with imports and let's start with bananas and that's the name
of the file.
Remember banana stop p y.
So import bananas and then we'll just start by doing bananas if I can spell the bananas.
What do we have in here.
Let's do dip in chocolate.
And that's printed just like that.
And let's see what happens.
So we're importing it from that file.
It does matter.
You know that they're in the same directory.
And if they're not then we need to reference the correct path.
So let's try it.
Do Python 3 fruits and I didn't execute the function.
So we are getting the function but I'm not actually calling it.
There you go.
Here's a delicious banana dipped in chocolate.
Let's do the same thing with apples import apples and then I'll do an apples offer and I'll print that.
Try this.
Now we get hey do you like apples.
Here's a delicious banana dipped in chocolate.
So we've got two separate files and we have access to all of those functions in each file by importing
them.
But we could also do me copy this and come at the original just to save that and we can also do something
like.
From the Nanna's import.
And let's say we only want rather than well let's do dip in chocolate.
Sure.
As dip.
OK.
And that will allow us to just refer to a function called dip.
Let's see if it works.
Perfect.
So here we're kind of combining all that imports and texture we saw where we're using from to specifically
call out the functions we want and we're giving it a name a much shorter name this time just dip as
you can see cool.
So that's the basics of actually creating custom modules and importing them.
Let's just quickly talk about why you would do this.
When is a good situation to make a module.
And we'll discuss this more when we talk about object oriented programming making classes will put some
classes in their own files and will have to decide when to make something a module versus a class but
we'll get there.
But for now if you find yourself with code that needs to be used in more than one place put it in a
module but that's not the only reason.
If you have a really long file and you know you have some way that you could group some of the functions
of the functionality into a module or put them in a separate file do that.
It doesn't have to be that you're using it in multiple places.
It might just be best to group things.
You know this is silly.
Bananas and apples.
But if we had 10 or 20 functions for each There's no reason to put them all in fruit's put some in apples
that have to do with apples and put the ones in bananas that have to do with bananas.
So it's just a way of organizing.